# 24 April 2022

> "When I told my friend the poet Jean Valentine that I had begun keeping a diary she said to me, "Only put down the facts, not the feeling. If you put down the feelings, you will forget the facts. If you put down the facts, you will remember the feelings." Andre Gregory, *This Is Not My Memoir", p. 104

I bought the Gregory book at Elements in Biddeford on Friday morning. It is not clear how the select the books they sell; the three books I have bought there were all hardbacks selling a large discount. While many of their selections don't interest me, whoever is stocking the shelves has figured out how to find books I want and have never heard of.

Gregory's memoir is vaguely similar to Oscar Levant's, in that it isn't always chronological, and often abandons narrative for anecdote or reaction. But Gregory is less guarded and his story much more affecting. Levant puts on a kind of "brutal honesty" which is funny and self-lacerating; Gregory pulls off feats like both commemmorating and regretting missed opportunities in his marriage.  A book inspiring enough in places to allow you to look past the privilege that made the life possible (something he often acknowledges), and which makes up for a bit of the silliness at the end. He seems to be a man for whom perspective does good things.

It is Sunday. I am in Clifton Park and have been since Friday afternoon. Richard Brewer's memorial was the reason for our trip here and was held yesterday at the UU church in downtown Albany. The worship space feels like a converted gym, with the varnished hardwood floors and awkward acoustics that implies. Alice and I were in the Holiday Inn over by Route 9, and started the morning by driving to Saratoga to go to a pastry shop. Despite being called "Mrs. London's" its stock in trade is French pastry, primarily variations on croissants. I spent the morning in a funk, unwilling to be social. I passed up a second cup of coffee because it would have required going up to the counter; happily Alice wanted a second pastry, so she filled it for me.  I took care of my routines; I ran four miles around the subdivision, and I practiced bass clarinet. My hands got sloppy about 2/3 of the way through scales in thirds, and I was grumpy about that. 

The memorial service lasted almost 90 minutes, and did not contain any surprises, apart from a picture of Richard from the 1970s drinking beer while reclining on a motorcycle. The man in the photo was not recognizable to me. That hinted at the possibility of a life of greater chaos than I might have expected, but the remembrances that followed rang changes on steadiness, quiet, calmness; "steadfast" was an adjective with unusual currency. The motorcycle picture may have come from a European trip taken with his brother, which his brother spoke about. But apart from the fact of it, and of the destinations (from Spain to Germany), and of the accident in Wales that brought it to an end, there was not much else to hear about. A quiet life, given depth by his late marriage and by Anna. I squirmed hard through the first half, trying to quiet the unbidden critic in my head that comments on every public performance. Either from practice or fatigue that voice quieted about an hour in, and from that point on I became much more human.

My humanity may have been recovering in part by getting to see Molly about 15 minutes before everything began. Sam and Natalie arrived early, and I walked her around the stage a little. I did not get to see her during the service; they set them up in a second floor room that looked out on to the service where they tried and failed to get her to nap. In fact, she never took her second nap yesterday, and yet also never melted down. 

There was a reception afterward, and later a dinner at Terry's assisted living place. During both of them the Schuths tended to stick fairly close together, and I glommed on to Molly as much as possible. She handled the chaos of the reception with her usual tactic of becoming quiet and just looking around until she could manage the noise. She then did a lot of walking - she may have been tricked into taking an unassisted step, in fact, but no one could be entirely sure. I returned with S&N&M to Clifton Park, where we worked on keeping M entertained until she could start her bath/night routine at 5:45. Our newest game is a strange variation on peek-a-boo, where "hiding" sometimes means looking away but often just means resting your head on your shoulder, and where my "peek-a-boos" became louder and manic to the point where M would squinch up her eyes and recoil at the sound of it - only to relax and laugh after the outburst was over. The game was further reified this morning into a weird eye-fluttering after the work "peek-a-boo". It was all exceedingly diverting.

Had a beer, a glass of wine, and a tiny bottle of Bushmills that Deirdre had in her purse during the dinner, enough to make me voluable but no one shushed me, so I don't think I was obnoxious. Conversation touched on health stuff (as usual now, though Dan and I got to clarify the whole "heart disease" thing he was not-really-diagnosed with) and car purchasing horror stories, and then on big pronouncements on the state of our times. Anna came over at one point and asked what we were talking about, and I answered "buying automobiles, global capitalism and the way it eviscerates trust, moral and ethics." So it was like that.

Watched the Celtics beat the Nets for the third time after we returned to the hotel, continuing to play that heavy defensive basketball I've only recently learned I love. Up early this morning - not well rested, of course, thanks to the alcohol (I did wake up to an elevated heart rate and heat during the night) and to the fact we were getting up before 6 so we could see SNM before they left to go home at 7a. Alice departed at the same time, heading off to Boston to see HSFR over the next few days. I am left here. Dottie and Kathy are here; if yesterday is any guide they will sleep until damn near 11, but then they too will depart for home, and that will leave Mom and Dad and I here from now until May. I've already had a few outbursts that shame me, and I've already had to run the gauntlet of "what's new with ____" questions from Mom, but perhaps they are out of my system now. It might be easier to be a decent person with just the three of us around as well, less distraction and less temptation to perform as myself.