# 25 April 2022

St. Mark

Spring is well advanced here. The tree with the white blossoms outside my father's office is in full bloom, and the grass here is almost completely green. It was quite warm last evening as Dad and I sat outside on the deck before dinner. I no longer can tell whether this weather is normal or not, between travel and the inevitable human inability to keep track of long term trends. It *seems* early and unnatural, but I may well be making that up.

After everyone departed from Albany yesterday, the house became very quiet. The middle part of the day was spent alternately reading and taking short naps - the early rise to see SNM plus the three drinks at the reception the night before left me with relatively little rest. I was reading Simon Critchley's unfortunately named *Tragedy, the Greeks, and Us*, which is a revisiting of the Greeks' relationship with drama as read through the infamous sections of *The Republic* and the famous parts of the *Poetics*. It is one of the books I bought at Elements. I keep thinking I will "do something" with a Greek play and can't seem to settle on what. The last project was to do a free translation in frank imitation of Mary Jo Bang's Dante, but I don't know where to start. Critchley isn't really helping with that, but the book is engaging. It takes seriously Plato's banishment of poetry, but tries to redefine "catharsis" into something less extreme. I'm not sure we'll end up any place in particular, but I find revisiting the texts to be interesting.

I also started another book, one of Dad's, about reconsidering the history of humanity, seeking an alternative narrative. It begins by picking away at the concept of "inequality" - when did it come about and why? - and locates its start in the European encounter with American natives, which is surprising. Just got started, though.

Practiced for two hours while the Red Sox lost another discouraging game. Bach is getting just a bit more fluent - bass clef still surprises me, but my fingers are remembering what to do. Playing some new etudes so I can avoid Rose. 

Ran five miles, right on schedule for my 10K training. Feeling a little achy this morning from it, typical run discomfort. Since running is my primary way of getting any sort of movement at all, I'm hoping my body will tolerated it.

I am consciously trying to be as accommodating to M&D's life as I can. I had an unfortunate moment on Sunday morning, when Dad asked if I "was planning to eat that bread you bought," and I responded with "no, I was planning to throw it away, etc." I'd like that to be my last irritated outburst while I am here. Eating very late is a challenge. Today I am going to try to avoid eating until noon or 1 p.m. and see if I can turn a 7:30 dinner time into intermittent fasting. I also will need to drink a bit more. Dad invited me out on the porch for a beer, and just one doesn't seem to do me harm. It was quite tempting to go for a second, of course, but I fought that off. It is harder to have only one beer than it is not to drink at all. Dad just gets talking and keeps talking. I was silent during much of it, apart from the occasional sound of acknowledgement. He has a need to just talk to people that I don't share, and certainly some of his stories ramble a bit. But he is pleasant enough and once I could bring myself to properly relax, it wasn't a bad way to spend an hour. Much of the talk was about the specifics of Rainbow Lake, including why it won't be too hard to stay away this year (lots of work to do, new neighbors with loud dogs), a repetition of how Bob Katz turned out to be a total asshole, and details about the work needing doing on the camp he no longer owns (the chimney, the landscaping steps). 

Dinner was hamburgers at 7:30p. I managed to avoid watching most of *60 Minutes*, which is their Sunday night routine; it started before dinner and I declined an invitation to watch it. They did have it on during dinner, but at a low volume, and I purposely sat with my back to the screen. Couldn't help being distracted by a piece on the new mayor of NYC, but I managed.

Fell asleep relatively fast and stayed asleep. Felt pretty tired - between travel, early rising, running, and practicing, I didn't have much left. Read until about 9.